Hopefully now you have a better
perspective on things you're good at and
things maybe you're not so good at and
ways you can build those up.
Let's talk about the actual interview.
If you've made it this far, and you're
like, Jim, despite your best efforts,
you have not convinced me to
not be an engineering manager.
It's all a waste, all right, fine.
If you're committed to the path, let's
talk about what that interview looks like.
And I like this section because
as a software engineer,
it's very unlikely you'll sit on
an interview for an engineering manager.
Maybe you will, and
if you can, try to do that.
And always try to do that whenever
you can, sit on interviews.
But it's unlikely you'll ever
know what they talk about.
They're not talking about code most
of the time, sometimes they do.
But, yeah,
what does an interview look like?
So let's talk a bit more about that.
First, how do you find a role?
This is a real problem I had
when I was like, I'm committed,
I wanna become an engineering manager.
Where I look and
you two options pretty binary.
You can look internally within
the company you're at, or
you can look externally
at a different companies.
And there's pros and cons to both.
If you're looking for an internal role,
the pro is the culture is familiar.
You at least know how people communicate,
generally.
And you know the domain, generally.
And there's asterisks by these because
you can be different parts of the company
depending on the size of the company.
We'll have different cultures entirely.
That's true, where I work it's true.
Almost every company I've ever been of
size of the cultures are different from
area to area.
So it may be a familiar culture and
it may not be, you're not guaranteed that.
But there's gonna be some familiarities
with technology and process hopefully,
that will make being internal
a little bit easier for transition.
Domain might be entirely different too.
You can't guarantee that when
you're looking for roles.
For instance, I'm pretty good at
JavaScript, but if I moved to be a Java,
manage a Java team,
I'd have to learn that pretty quickly.
And you can argue that's
a different domain of technology.
So something to think about, internal does
not mean it's gonna be easier, but there
are a lot of familiarities that should
make the transition a little bit easier.
With an internal role, you can work
towards it over time, hopefully.
Hopefully, there's a learning path for
you at your company on how
to make that transition.
But the downside of internal roles,
the availability is going to be low.
That's just a numbers thing.
There's always gonna be more roles
outside of your small company, or
even if it's a large company, than within.
And that's a problem, especially if
you have a company of high performers,
where lots of people
want to become a manager.
What do you do in that situation?
Sometimes you have to leave.
So I'd say internal is a little
bit easier of a path if you can.
But it's probably one of the more
difficult ones for a few reasons.
For the external role,
coming from software engineer to manager,
here's something you
probably don't think about.
You don't know anything.
[LAUGH] As a software engineer,
you don't know what management looks like.
Yeah, maybe if you're taking this course,
you have some idea, but until you do it,
you just don't really know and
the companies don't know you either, so
you have to sell yourself a lot harder.
Of like, I can become an engineer manager
because I've been a team lead for
three years or I've been a staff engineer.
I've led these number
of impactful projects.
I give feedback.
I receive feedback well.
I'm a good communicator, you have to sell
the skills that hopefully add up and
they see you have potential
to be a good leader.
But the fact is they don't know you,
and they're taking a bet on you.
When I first was looking for roles,
there wasn't a lot internally at Netflix,
a lot of ambitious people, and
Netflix a really high performing culture.
The roles are very few and
far between when they open up,
that are good for a junior manager.
So I remember talking to companies, and I
talked to the big ones like Meta, AWS, and
they were all like, Jim,
your resume is good on paper.
You have a lot of the strong
leadership potential.
However, nobody's gonna
take a risk on you.
Cuz if they're wrong about
you being a poor leader,
the blast radius is really high.
And I remember a recruiter said
that to me directly, they're like,
you have the qualifications, but nobody's
gonna hire you without the experience
because .we don't know you, and
we're not gonna take that risk.
We don't need to,
we're big enough company.
And that's not, but that's the reality
of it, and they're not wrong.
They don't know how I'm gonna perform,
and if it takes time to figure out if
someone's a good manager or
bad manager, and if I'm bad,
I'm gonna pull everybody down, not just
the team, but the entire organization.
So, it's something to consider with an
external role that's gonna be a little bit
more challenging, or you ought to
put in a little bit more work.
And you also have to tailor your resume
for the role, and I've seen a number of
software engineers that comes to me
like Jim, tell me about your transition.
Tell me about how you became
your paths enhancement.
And I share that with them.
And I'm like,
I'm happy to look at your resume.
Take me five minutes to look it over.
And they didn't change it at all.
It was all software engineer oriented.
I'm like what role are you applying for?
They're like, manager.
It's like, but
this doesn't look like a manager.
You're talking about your technology
that you use and things like that.
So you do have to rethink your resume and
tailor it towards leadership,
things you've done, metrics you've moved,
the ways you've mentored and
coached people, the ways you've
shown up on their soft skills side.
Something consider on external roles.
And another one for external roles,
you may have to move to a smaller company.
Like I said, I was talking to the other
big companies going like I work at
a big company.
I wanna go work in another big company,
I'm familiar with enterprise,
but they wouldn't take a chance on me.
Whereas a smaller company probably would
like a startup can take more of that risk
cuz startups are risky
inherent in their nature.
So something to think about an external
role is you may have to step down from
whatever size company to an even smaller
company, but that's an option too.
Those of you who've made the transition or
have looked for roles,
does this resonate or any questions
thinking internally versus externally?
>> Not a question but I can share
experience, I had a weird situation where
I had consulted where I work today for
four years as a full stack engineer.
And had other opportunities elsewhere for
a year or so.
And so it was an external role but
also I knew everyone there and
yeah I think looking into those
kind of situations can be hard and
I agree with the thought that you
do have to kind of change your
resume to be more about leadership and
accomplishments.
And working through others rather
than what technology you used or
what familiarity you
have with certain codes.
>> I like what you said
there about lucky interval.
I have a course on interviewing for
front-end engineers,
but that advice applies to
anything you interview for.
Half its luck, so if you don't get
the role, maybe it's not on you.
Sometimes it's just you're
not saying the right things,
you don't have the right background.
Sometimes the person just woke up
on the wrong side of the bed and
they don't like you.
It happens.
I'm just being real, it happens.
So don't get yourself down
if you can't find the role.
The transition is one of
the more difficult ones.
If you haven't accidentally lucked into
a role, or been pushed into a role,
doing it deliberately is probably one of
the more difficult things you will do.
There just aren't that
many roles out there.